# My broken glasses

EVERY WORD COUNTS

Hey Dad,

What am I trying to say?
3. The other day, I cleaned the bubble. I couldn't help but smile.
4. Remember when you found me? I thought I was going to die then and there. GLASSES BROKEN: Cannot connect to intranet
5. It was then that you found out about my writing.
6. You know I'm a single father now, just like you? I strive to be as good of a father as you.



Do you remember the bubble?
The old hemisphere kelp observation deck under the processing facility in lab 1?
There are a few other observation decks, but this is the only one shaped like a sphere.
After this one was made, the architects realized that the observation decks could double as buoyancy wells to keep Nemo afloat, so the design was changed a bunch.

The processing facility was actually built on top of it due to the lack of space and it was covered by a strange basement door in the corner of a dusty, unused part of the research hub.


I think you and I are the only people that ever went there.

I gotta go make dinner.

In my own bubble.

I mean, she didn't leave.
We are still married, but she's out of the picture.

Ah yeah. We got married by the way.



I feel like we the world around me is needlessly complex and the only time I can truly breath is when I get away from it all and just listen to nature.


DEEP BREATH IN THE FOREST


There must be some truth to that.
I feel like every person universally knows the feeling of taking a deep breath when surrounded by nature.
I'll sometimes sit at the dock and listen to the world around me.
No technology, just me and my thoughts.
Sometimes the wind and waves are overbearing.
Somtimes they are gentl
I'll stare off towards the clouds and ocean, maybe even the sun as it's setting.
It should be 
Yet, all I see is grey.



Sometimes, I feel like everything in life is a distraction.
I'll look out on the ocean and feel like the blues


You know the sound of jumping in the water?
You could be having a 

There's a unique feeling to jumping in the water.

Sometimes I feel like everything in life is a distraction.
Everything around me feels muted and empty while my brain is occupied thinking about one thing I really, really want to do.
I spend every waking moment thinking about it and precisely planning how it might be done.
Then, when I finally have time, I make every excuse not to do it.


There's a 

Sometimes, I feel like everything in life is a distraction.
It all feels muted

Sometimes everything I do in life feels like a distraction.
Like, there is this one thing I really, really want to do.
I spend all my time thinking about it and precisely planning how it might be done.


Sometimes I find myself fixated on certain things.


You know how sometimes tehre is something you really want to do, but can never seem to find the time to do it?
Like, you spend all day, every day thinking about this one thing.
Yet, when you have time


Sometimes it's really hard to know what to write.

There's a 

I cleaned the bubble up again yesterday.
I don't think anyone had even been inside of it for years.

Life can sometimes be overwhelming.

It's hard to find satisfaction in life.
There will always be something that somehow goes wrong.
Work might be too hard.
Your family life might be chaotic.
Maybe you haven't slept properly for weeks.

Yet, no matter the case there is always time to do the dishes.
Sometimes, completing a single thing, no matter how small, is just satisfying enough to get you through the day.
If you keep building small successes over and over, you can work your way through anything life throws at you.

One of those life lessons you taught me when I was young.


Sometimes life is crazy.
Work might be too hard.
Your family life might be utter chaos.
Maybe you haven't slept properly in a few months.

No matter the case, there's always time to do the dishes.

Well, I hate to say it, but it's time for me to dot eh dishes.


In the face of all of that, you would always say the same thing, "It's time to do the dishes."
Not in a metaphorical sense either.
You 


It's weird. I know the excat feeling I am trying to protray, but I can't put it into words.
It's like I stepped right back into the shoes of my teenage self.
Diligently clearing every inch of my bubble to make sure I could work in peace.


When I was a teenager, I would often come home late.
Not super late, but late enough that dinner was cold and waiting for me on the table.
Not only that, but the dishes were done, the floors were swept, and the house was tidy.


Do you remember the Bubble?
The kelp observation deck under the processing facility?
There were a bunch of other observation decks, but this was one of the first ones built, so it has a bunch of weird quirks.
It was before the architects thought of the buoyancy well design to keep Nemo floating, so it was basically just a hemisphere that dipped into the water so people could watch the kelp grow.
It's also almost entirely abandoned and impossible to find.

I guess after years of population growth, the processing facility suffered from what can only be described as building puberty, leaving little nooks that were never touched by anyone anymore.
That particular nook was mine though.
It was the only place I could go to truly be alone.

To be honest, I think you might have been the only other person to go there.


...


Sorry.
That was a long, rambly story with no discernable purpose.
I guess I just wanted to say that I miss you.

I don't know where you are or what you've been doing with yourself for the past few years, but with Joanne effectively out of the picture, I've been struggling a bit.
We have a daughter named Rei.
She's great.
I know you've never met her, but I am sure you would love her almost as much as I do.

She's kind, compassionate, and wickedly smart.
She must get her intelligence from you or Joanne because the Lord knows my IQ is about the same as...

Man, really should have thought of that analogy before I started writing that sentence.

The point is that being a single parent is hard.
I don't know how you did it.
I feel like I still have so much to learn.

INSERT QUOTE FROM JEB.

To be honest, I don't even know why I wrote this.
Tai thought it would be a good idea, but it's not always right.

Anyway.
I might write again.
I might not.

Peace,
-Lars

#------------------------------------------------------------------------------#

Hey Dad,

I don't know where you are right now or what you have been doing with yourself for the past few years, but I've been well.
I mean, sure, Joanne is effectively out of the picture, but I really don't mind the single parent life too much.
Rei's great.
I know you've never met her, but I am sure you would love her almost as much as I do.

She's kind, compassionate, and wickedly smart.
She must get her intelligence from you or Joanne because the Lord knows my IQ is about the same as...

Man, really should have thought of that analogy before I started writing that sentence.

Nevermind. Who cares?
I'm only writing these because Tai said it might be good for me to do so.
No one's going to read this anyway [^ Sorry.].

It's been so long.
There's so much I want to catch you up on, but maybe I should start (as I always do) with a long, rambly story with no discernable purpose.

To be honest, I don't remember when this happened, but it was rather cold outside, so maybe July or August?
It doesn't matter, we don't need to get bogged down with the details here.

The point is that it was cold and I was a teenager.

Being a teenager is hard.
On the one hand, you are smart enough to realize that you have autonomy and can do just about anything you want.
On the other hand, you have no idea what you want to actually do.

I don't really know why, but after Joanne, Jake and I spent most of the day goofing around, I needed to just sit somewhere to relax and recharge myself.
I had a number of different hiding spots, but my favorite was the kelp observation deck.
It was a bit hidden away, so you might not remember it.
There was a little basement door near the processing facility that would lead to a bubble under the water so people could check in on the quality of the kelp.

Keeping it clean was a small passion project of mine.
Actually, I haven't been there in some time.
Give me a second.

...

Man, talk about deja vu!
I took a day off from writing to visit the old kelp deck.

It took me a while because some student covered up the entrance with an AR [^Augmented Reality] board.
After I moved it away and opened the hatch, I was hit with the most nostalgic musty smell, but as I walked down the stairs, I noticed something unusual: it was pitch black.
At that time of day, there should have been at least a little light filtering through from the outside.
But yesterday, nothing.
It was completely overwhelmed by moss.

I then just laughed.
No one ever cleaned the bubble except me.
Heck, I'm convinced no one else even knows it exists besides the two of us.

So I fumbled around and found my old squeegie and suit, stripped off my clothes then and there and got ready for a snorkel.
Even though the diving pad was a considerable distance from the bubble, and the kelp had grown a significant amount since my last visit, I still found my way there without any trouble.
The moss was crazy!

Back in the day, it would only take an hour at most to clean everything, but yesterday it took all afternoon and then some! I had to come back in the evening with a light to finish up the job.
Honestly, I should have brought an oxygen tank, but it was a good workout to bob up and down on the surface.
Now that the sun's up today, I can see a bunch of missed green patches on the outside of the bubble, but I think it's ok for now.

There was something about scraping all the moss away and watching it drift to the ocean floor that felt really relaxing.
I'm just been so mindlessly busy recently.
Fixing boats, signing documents, lecturing students...
None of it really felt, real?
Like, there was a sort of haze around everything I did that kept me from really enjoying my day-to-day.

Agency.
Maybe that's what I have been missing.
Everything I do, I do to help others.
But yesterday, when I was cleaning my own little bubble, I felt satisfied in a way I hadn't in years.

When I was younger, I'd just kinda stare through my goggles at the bubble from the outside.
If you lined up your vision just right, it would do that infinite mirror thing where there were like a thousand copies of you bouncing back and forth to infinity.
I tried to do that again yesterday, but never quite got it right
I almost saw it.
Every time I scraped off the moss, I would look directly at the bubble, hoping to see it, but just missed it every time.
I couldn't remember the exact lighting necessary to get it to work, but it had something to do with the time of day, and I guess I just missed the right window.

But this morning, just before getting back to writing, I decided to get to the bottom of things and blow a few ring bubbles.
I used to be able to get them to be perfectly symmetric around the bubble's base.
Today, well, not so much.
To be honest, my lung capacity is shot and I could hardly get my hands in position to make the ring bubble in the first place.
But I got the infinite mirror thing to work at least.
Well, "infinite" might be a bit of a stretch, but I got a few reflections back and forth and that was good enough for me.

Man I'm old.
Not as old as you, but still.
Old.

Now that I'm sitting here, alone and dripping a bit with my notebook in hand, I feel like the kelp deck is a perfect symbol for Nemo.
The settlement is filled with a bunch of ideas that only kinda work and only when people put in the leg work to make them work.
On the other hand, "Kinda working" is way better than broken.

That's a good one, I should write that one down.

What were we even talking about here?

Right, teenage angst.



#------------------------------------------------------------------------------#
# Snippets
#------------------------------------------------------------------------------#

But Joanne used to always say that was the beauty of humanity.
When we push, we can make things happen.

Still, sitting here now, I'm happy enough with my work.
I mean, sure, things are a bit grean, but my glasses can fix that.
Right now, I've got my pen, my notebook, and a bottle of water.
Just like old times.

Speaking of, time to ramble (as if I hadn't been already).

"I just looked for the most remote place I could think of."
I then realized how much work you must have done to find me there.

In true Nemoian fashion, the
That might be why no else ever stopped by.
Well, no one except for you.



In fact...

I just moved to be there now.
I haven't been here in a while, so it's a little dusty, but it's basically the same as I remember.
There's a small door
