# The existence party

0. This chapter introduces Nemo, Jake, Joanne, and Rei
1. The new recruits are always shocked at the state of technological development at Nemo
2. Stories from off-site don't feel real.
3. Rei finally exists.
4. Jake
5. Joanne felt trapped.

Hey Joanne,

# Maybe start with a TAI update that gives everyone status boards, but through their government IDs / Passports?
# Start with the tour. There should be some sourness appearing when Joanne and Jake talk about the world.
# Jake will always be quite negative, but Joanne wants nothing more than to escape Nemo.
# The existence party should feel bittersweet
# Rei got her passport because Joanne always wanted to give one to her.
# Lars needs to somehow draw the analogy of children being seasoed veterans and the new recruits, though older, being literal children.
# They recognize Rei, but not Lars
# Always use "We" for Joanne and Lars, so the final line hits.

The other day, I found myself reading a book from the 20th century.
I got really into it.
There's something about older novels that really sparks my interest.

Growing up, we were constantly told we were special.

But I truly believe everyone has something -- even if they spend their entire lives trying to figure out what that is.

I'm still doing the tours.
I've done so many of them at this point that I can't help but stifle my own yawns while walking through the site.
I know it's supposed to be exciting and new to everyone coming in, but I just... can't.

The other day, I decided to being Rei along for the first time.

Remember when we met Jake?

Swimming through class.

You and Jake were inseperable.
Actually kinda surprised you picked me in the end.

But I guess I understand.
It's hard to date a force of nature.

You were always mesmerized by his stories of the outside world.
In fact, you were mesmerized by every story.

"did you hear? Off-site, there are..."
"Did you hear?"
"Did you hear?"

At the end of the day, I heard every single story not once, but twice.
Maybe three or four times.
Once when we heard it together, and then again and again as you retold them.

TELL JAKE's Life story through Joanne's mind.

The truth is that while I found comfort in the walled garden of Nemo, you saw it for what it rightly is: a cage.

During the tours, we met someone with an implant.
They couldn't even see us and had to be led by Jake.

It was then that we realized we needed something.
ID.

We fought and fought and finally got the ID.


I am happy to say that after years of paperwork, Rei now has her passport as well and can leave whenever she chooses.
Hopefully not soon though.
I don't know what I would do if it was just me and Jake here.
Don't get me wrong, he's cool, but I am not ready to become an olympic athlete.

Regardless, today, I met the latest refugees.
Rei and I arrived a few minutes late, so they were all standing around awkwardly at the dock.
Realizing this, I jogged a bit forward and stretched out my hand to the person nearest to me, saying something like, "Hey, I'm Lars. Welcome to Nemo! Sorry about being late!"
The man did not react.
He was young, with a scruffy beard and short hair.
Possibly just finished his PhD.

He somehow missed me entirely and instead waved his hand towards Rei, saying, "Hello! We just arrived. TAI says there should be a tour. Are you the tour guide?"
He then furrowed his brows a little, "Ah, you are from the IRR? Are you a native here? That's incredible!"

Rei immediately responded, "Yeah, I'm from here. So is my dad."
She then nodded her head towards me and started giggling a bit.
See, during this time, my hand was still awkwardly extended.
I wasn't sure if I should pull it back or try to shake hands with another person.
So I just froze completely, which was apparently weird for an adult human to do.
Also the fact that she was recognized over me, her father, was somehow hilarious to her.

After this exchange, the tour continued as it always does and I got to know everyone rather well.
Later, when we returned home for dinner, Rei kept going on and on about how she was more important than me now that she got her passport, something even I was unable to do.

After I put Rei to bed, I realized something.
Now that she has her passport, I'm alone again.
The only person on Nemo who doesn't exist.

I guess I just miss being alone with you.

I know I could apply for a passport, but why would I?
To exist is to leave, and I never want to leave.

Still, I'm proud of who you've become and where you've gone.
I just miss you.
I miss us.
But we were only holding you back anyway.

See you soon,
- Lars

#------------------------------------------------------------------------------#
# SNIPPETS
#------------------------------------------------------------------------------#

Nemo is a small community.
Every single person on-site needs to go through rigorous background checks and training to make sure they are able to even survive.


We used to give tours to the new Nemoians
Rei finally exists now.
Tai recognizes her as a citizen of the "International Research Refuge (IRR)" just like you


Rei finally exists now.
She's got her passport and everything to prove it.
She tried showing it to me, but I apparently lacked the authorization to do so even though I'm her father.



We finally (finally) began processing Rei's passport.
Tai says it will arrive within the week.



Rei finally exists now.
We got her paperwork done and everything.
She's finally got her passport as a member of the International Reseach Refuge.

I'll often hear stories from people who lived off-site.
They'll talk about how there are wars fought over this and that.
They'll

Yet, to me, they will always be just that: stories.
And boring ones at that.

You and I are special.
So is Rei.
We are not like 


You and I are special.
We'll always be special.
Legally, we shouldn't exist.
Rather, we can't exist.
Neither can Rei for that matter.

I don't know how you even left, to be honest.




It's just hard to see the world through fresh eyes.
The new recruits are children to me.

There's a certain liveliness to Nemo that takes time fo

Do you remember the tours?
We started doing them when we were maybe 10 and kept it up until... Well, I guess until you left.




A long time ago, we used to be *the* tour guides for Nemo.
You, me, Jake, and my dad (when he was free).

Most of the time, it was pretty routine.
I mean, we only saw new people once or twice a year at most, so we didn't really 

Remember when we met Jake?
At the time, we were young and acted as tour guides.
It was supposed to be a fun way to meet the new members of the community, while the adults were busy keeping Nemo afloat.

The problem is that the new recruits were always old.
Distinguished.
With PhDs and a clear research purpose.

# Don't say this
The air was suffocating at times.
Nemo was never a pace for children.
It is a research facility with very limited availability.
These people were specifically chosen due to their research background and they came to make a name for themselves.
To work hard and push the boundaries of human knowledge.

#### Maybes
# It became routine, but also tense
#Still, there was always a little tension.
#We could diffuse it a bit with jokes or by showing our own technical expertise.
#There was always a boundary between us.
I don't know why, but it would take the new folks a long time to talk to us instead of Tai.
I always wondered if maybe people off-site are socially stunted somehow?
Like, they are too reliant on technology and don't remember how to actually talk to people in a low tech society?

Then there was Jake.
He really stood out like a sore thumb.
Young.
Accompanied by his parents.
Wearing that silly dress and sunhat to cover his short hair, which he was strongely embarrassed of.

Yet, when he saw us, I could see his face change.
I guess he had no idea there were kids on-site.

He immediately ran to me, stretched out his hand and introduced himself, "Hey. Hi. I'm Jake."

His parents then corrected him, "It's Jackelyn, actually."
They looked around a bit, as if uncomfortable with the situation.
# NOTE: sell the awkwardness here.

He then leaned in and whispered to us, "It's Jake."

I laughed a bit.
Man, that was a breath of fresh air!
I didn't know until that moment what I was missing -- something, or someone interesting.
Jake was certainly that person.

I often wondered if there family was chosen for Nemo specifically because of Jake.
After all, we were socially starved and he was coming from a place in the world that still did not fully accept who he was, so it was a perfect fit!

I then introduced the two of us and began the tour.




Clark roped me in to doing another tour.
I don't know why I listen to him anymore.
Sure, he's the "president" or whatever, but everyone knows it's a meaningless title without any clear purpose.


Whatever.

This group was 

Jason roped me in to doing another tour.
I don't even know why we do them anymore.
I mean, Tai knows the entire place from top to bottom and can probably do better than any human.
Plus, it knows what kind of research each person would be up to

The other day, I was at the dock when the Jason stopped by.
He dipped his feet in the water and we made smalltalk for a bit.
At first, I had no idea why he was there, but suddenly he said, "Hey Lars, are you busy?"

It was then that I knew I was caught in another one of his traps.
I mean, we had just spent the past half hour talking about literally nothing of any importance.
How could I possibly be busy?
On the other hand, I really, really didn't want to do another one of his "Presidential errands."

Whatever.
I answered honestly, "I'm free for about another hour."

"Great!" He said, "There should be a boat coming in 

