# How to read a scientific paper

To me, there is (almost) nothing more enjoyable than relaxing on a cold afternoon with a cup of hot cocoa and a freshly-printed paper.
Though I prefer papers with some form of algorithm-related discussion, I have found myself happily reading literature from almost any field.
To-date, I have yet to read a paper that I didn't learn at least something from.
When you think about it, that makes sense.
After all, each paper is *novel*, meaning that at the time of publication it is (at least in principle) the first time anyone in the world has ever done that thing.
That already is incredibly interesting to me.

That said, I have come to accept that I am an outlier even among academics.
The fact is that there are too many papers out there for any one person to read, and considering that it can sometimes take weeks to understand even a single paper, it's no wonder why people avoid them!

But I firmly believe that anyone with a high school level education can not only read papers, but enjoy the process of reading them.
It all comes down to motivation.

Do you want to do something that no one has ever done before?
Well, the easiest way is to start learning the state-of-the-art.
You do that by reading papers!

Do you love learning, but feel like science fiction and popular science are just a little too "watered down" for your taste?
Well, go directly to the source!
Papers!

Do you have a silly question burning in the back of your mind?
"Why is the sky blue?"
"How do black holes capture light if photons have no mass?"
"What happens when atoms reach absolute 0?"
All of these questions have been answered in papers!

In fact, you could argue that this book is just a series of silly questions all wrapped up into one, neat package.
To be honest, that is why I am writing this.
I want to show people how to tackle daunting questions with rigor in a fun and approachable way.

So let's start breaking down why reading papers is such a difficult task for so many people.

## Why is it so hard to read papers?

So let's say your friend really, really loves a particular book.
Your not much of a reader, but after hearing your friend gush about it for hours and hours, you are interested.
One day, while out on the town, you find a book store and after looking through the shelves, you find the very same book your friend was talking about!
Excited, you buy it, rush home and...

Open up to chapter 10 to start reading.

At this point, you are confused.
There are so many characters that you have never heard of before.
So many plot lines that make no sense.
Whatever, maybe it will make sense when you read another chapter, right?
So you now read chapter 23.

You are still confused, so you try another chapter, this time 7.

At this point, you are incredibly disappointed and tell your friend that you tried their favorite book series and it just wasn't for you.

This, of course sounds nonsensical!
No one reads a book starting at chapter 10!
They start at the start and end at the end, Just as the author intended.

Now, what if each chapter was written by a different person?
What if it wasn't distributed as a book, but rather as a series of short stories all in a similar universe?

This is the problem with papers.
Often times, people will be trying to learn a topic.
Desperate, they will google it and find a paper.
After downloading it and reading it to the best of their abilities, they are frankly lost.
There is too much jargon.
Too many weird math symbols.
Not enough explanation as to *why* a certain methodology was used.

In my mind, every scientific discovery is it's own interesting story.
If you've found a random paper, then you are starting to read that story at chapter 10.
Each piece of jargon is it's own character with it's own dynamic plot line dedicated to it.
The notation has a similar story.
papers are filled with topics that researchers throughout history have dedicated their lives to studying, of course it is hard to understand at the start!

It's important to take a second and regroup.
Circle all the words and phrases you want to learn more about and just start digging.
Every sentence in the paper should either be obviously true or else have a reference associated with it, so start there.
This is why I always say that the most important part of every paper is it's bibliography.
You also have google, wikipedia, and so many other resources online to look through.

The reason I love reading papers so much is precisely because each paper leads me through a maze of loosely connected ideas in order to tell a complete story.
That *is* the fun part.

Learning is a journey.
Sure, it might be disappointing to start the journey only to realize that there is a *huge* number of things to learn about and do in the future.
On the other hand, if you are enjoying a particular video game, why would you be disappointed to learn there are an endless number of new levels for you to play?

In my mind, papers are hard for people to read because they have never been taught how to properly engage with the literature.
So that's what this chapter is for.
Let's talk about papers.

## Let's talk math

I need to carve out a special caveat for everything that I have been saying up until this point.

See, as much as I like to claim that research can be understood at an "upper high school level," there is one field in-particular that is absolutely necessary to better understanding the research literature, and that is mathematics.
If you are a biologist, you will be using math for reporting on statistics.
If you are a computer scientist, you will be using math as the foundation for most of the algorithms you would like to use.
If you are a physicist, you will probably be using math more than English.
There's a reason people say that "mathematics is the language of physics."

For this reason, if you are currently in high school, I would stringly encourage you to take your time and really try to learn mathematics to the best of your abilities.
I know that the subject-matter can seem rather bland and formulaic, but it is literally the foundation of so much research that it is absolutely essential to understanding almost any modern research discipline.

If you have graduated from high school, then it might be worthwhile to spend a little extra time brushing up on your math whenever you see a formula in the papers you are reading.
To me, intuition matters more than calculations.
For example, it doesn't matter if you know precisely how to calculate a determinant, as long as you roughly understand what it does.

[ADD BLOCK FOR DETERMINANT:
If you see the matrix as a transformation matrix, and use it to transform the vertices of a given shape, the determinant is basically a ratio of the new area of the shape to the old one]

Nowadays, programming is becoming equally as important, so I would also encourage you to learn a bit about programming if you want to actually do research yourself.
I always recommend starting with Julia or C, but any other language will do.

No matter what subject you are trying to learn, it is important to make sure your fundamental knowledge on that subject is strong.

## How to find papers?

Though there are people (like myself) who seek out papers to read, most of the time, they will be found organically as you are trying to learn or understand something else.
For example, if you are doing a deep dive into why the sky is *actually* blue, you might find a lot of papers on color theory, light and electromagnetic radiation, or even atmospheric composition.
The fact is that you are your own guide and as you dig for a deeper understanding of a topic, you will eventually hit the boundary of human knowledge, which is littered with papers.
As long as you take your time and make sure you have a strong foothold with every step along the way, by the time you finally start to read the research literature, it should come naturally.

This is why I often do not tell people to seek out papers, but instead to try to answer challenging questions.
Through the process, papers will appear, and when they do, you will probably be ready for them.

Still, it's worth very briefly talking about how researchers publish papers and where you can find them.

### The publication economy

Each paper is the result of months -- sometimes years of work from highly skilled individuals; however, the researchers, themselves, don't get paid to publish.
In fact, they often need to give away the copyright to their own work and pay thousands of dollars to do so.

As it stands right now, becoming a full-time researcher is a rather cutthroat business.
Students must finish all of high school, then college, and then graduate school before becoming PhD students and pouring all of their time and energy into a single problem that later becomes a thesis.
Once the thesis is published, the PhD student finally becomes a doctorate (usually at the age of 30 or so); however, their climb is far from over.
They then usually need to sign up to become a postdoctoral scholar working under a professor or other senior researcher for a few years.
During this time, they often move around frequently between different labs before finally seeking a full-time position as a professor or staff scientist somewhere else.
If the researcher chooses to become a professor, they still need to work themselves up the ranks from assistant to associate and finally to full professor.

Because the job market is saturated (there are more PhD holders than research positions for them), none of these positions pay particularly well.
In fact, I had less money on hand during my postdoc than I did during my PhD due to the difference in the cost of living in Okinawa vs Boston.
In addition, the researcher might need to give up their dreams of becoming a researcher at any step of the process simply because they fall behind their peers.

But what does it mean to "fall behind"?

Simply that the number of people using your work is not high enough.
In general, it is easy to tell nowadays how many people are using your work based on the number of people citing it in their own work, and this (along with the number of publications you are making) is used as a rough metric to determine your quality as a researcher.

This is why researchers will gladly pay to showcase their work in particular journals.
It's the only way for them to continue their career.

Unfortunately, this comes at a cost for readability.
Journals often require subscriptions to read, which means you need to pay money to access the research hidden within.
Long-story short, this means that the bulk of all modern research is behind a sometimes significant paywall.
It is a bit unfortunate that work that is funded by public money is not accessable for free by the people funding it, but I am not wanting to turn this into a political discussion.

The point is that this paywall is probably the number one reason why people do not engage with papers more regularly; however, there are ways around it.

### ArXiv
### Google Scholar
### Review articles
### Other ways to avoid costs.

Just ask!

## What is the general structure

